# Updates made to Automata-Tutor

This document outlines the additions, deletions, and refactoring that were implemented in AT web application from 06/17/2020 - 09/01/2020

## Exercises

The addition of exercises was added to Automata Tutor in order to allow for more flexibility. Previously, individual problems were posed to students - meaning that if you wanted two problems to be shared among two different courses, you had to create a duplicate. 

Now, exercises hold a "pointer" to their respective problem. Meaning that there can be many exercises (across either courses or folders) pointing to the same problem.

The pointer is live too, so that if that referenced problem is changed, it will be reflected when the student goes to practice or solve the exercise.

The notion of "grading" was moved to the Exercise class, along with all meta data about student metrics.

## Folders

A "folder" system is implemented to allow for the grouping of related problems. In this, folders are now posed to students instead of individual problems/exercises being posed.

You can now delete, edit, and make folders visible. If you delete a folder, all of its exercises are lost so be careful! (The problems are not lost of course, they always persist unless deleted)

Folders have the ability to "batch edit" a list of exercises - like changing the number of attempts they have and the max grade achievable

Side note - plz dont name your folder the same thing. You CAN do it - but it leads to undefined behavior when exporting problems.

EXISTING EXERCISE

## Problem Pool

Becuase problems are no longer "posed" directly to students, a problem pool was added that acts like a central repo for problems. From there, you can individually or batch send problems to a given folder, and sort/filter problems based on their Name/Description/Problem_Type

NOTE: filtering problem just hides them with vanilla js. MEANING that if you filter the list, then use shift + M1 to select a sequence, any problems that were origionally inbetween your selection will ALSO be selected. It is recommended that when you filter, and want to batch edit, you just simply click each checkbox individually.

## Autogenerate a Problem

The Autogen page used to have a list where you could see all autogenerated problems - now all autogenerated problems automatically go straight to the problem pool.

## Course Grades

A button was added in the Course page to download a zip file containing the course grades. The zip contains csv files, each file named after a folder in the course. Each csv as columns for the student's first and last name, each exercise in the folder, and the total points accumlated. (It takes the student's HIGHEST score on a problem) and the total is just a summation.

## Users

The user page was updated with the total attempts by each student across each the folders, the number of possible points they could achieve, and their average grade across their attempted exercises.

## Import and Export

### DB Import Export

You can now directly download problems from the database in xml format.

### Folder Import Export

While viewing a course you can export all homework problem as a zip. The zip will contain multiple xml files, each representing a folder. Within each file will be the list of problems surrounded by a `<exported></exported>` tag. You must keep the tag if you ever want to reimport the problems.

You can import folders directly from your computer too. You can either import a single xml file (representing a folder) or a zip of multiple xml files. No matter which you submit, the program will take the name of each file, set that as the folder name (set the folder properties to default) then add and exercise for each problem listed in that given file. 

NOTE: the file still needs the problems surrounded in a master `<exported></exported>` tag.

## Database

In order to accommodate the above changes, the database schema needed updating. A sql file is included in this repo which outlines the changes made to the DB. If you want the complete schema for the DB - then dig for it yourself. Idk why the original authors decided to use an obsecure database but here ya go. You can download the graphical connector via: <http://www.h2database.com/html/download.html> May Mother Gaia have mercy on your soul if you need to crack this DB open. Yuk.

## Miscellaneous

There were little stylistic changes as well. Like removing the document tree on the left hand side of the page.

There might be others? Idk. You figure it out. Just like I did.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. Do with it what you will. Idk man, I barely have a degree.

## License

See LICENSE.
